okay let's get started so  welcome
okay let's get started so welcome
everyone this is a soroban design
discussion  in these meetings we
discussion in these meetings we
discuss  some of the core decisions
discuss some of the core decisions
that we need to make when we're building
soroban which is a platform for smart
contracts  that is in active
contracts that is in active
development right now and is being
integrated integrated with stellar
today we're talking about off next which
is a proposal that Dima put together
to address some of our authentication
and authorization needs on the network
so I think that without further Ado
this is the second time we're talking
about off next the first time was before
the holidays a lot of folks were  were
the holidays a lot of folks were were
were out so I think we're gonna start
with  an overview by Dima  then dive
with an overview by Dima then dive
into questions
and  ideally you will be able to make
and ideally you will be able to make
a decision  or get close we would
a decision or get close we would
close without decision today  so Dima
close without decision today so Dima
can you take it
yeah hi everyone you hear me
okay yeah okay sounds good thank you
so  a quick overview I will
so a quick overview I will
probably skip on the motivation for the
sake of time  I will just say that the
sake of time I will just say that the
general modulation is that we are aren't
too excited about the state the
others currently now it's a bit too
fragmented and to limit it in some
senses well it's too flexible in other
cases and it's not necessary so  this
cases and it's not necessary so this
proposal tries to build something into
the protocol
that would be those  flexible but
that would be those flexible but
also standardized so that contracts can
inter operate and the client software
can Implement certain things just once
without tweaking them for every contract
so on a high level The Proposal consists
of
two big components  the first being
two big components the first being
account abstraction and second being
standardized signature payloads and
invocation authorization
so  to play on this point account
so to play on this point account
abstraction is a well-known concept on
in other chains and basically is that
instead of passing some entities that
are tied to some
crypto algorithms such as
some public keys or something like that
or instead of trying all those to say
classic server accounts
we make the
contracts to operate on some abstract
entities called accounts and from the
contraction Point account is  just an
contraction Point account is just an
object that has an address that can be
used to throw balances for example or
for any account related information or
transfer balances to this account
and it has a way to authorize the
invocations of the functions  it's not
invocations of the functions it's not
the contract in the contract business
logic how exactly the account does that
so hence the abstraction and the
accounts themselves can be implemented
both in a built-in fashion some of our
built-in tokens and the building
implementation will cover the classic
store account so they will all get their
default account contract right but they
also can be customized right for example
if someone comes up is a new
cryptogram like this Quantum resistance
for example right or you know there are
Hardware votes that currently don't
support her at all it is possible to
write an account contract that will
perform this custom authentication but
the possibilities are much better than
that it is possible to have a literally
complex multi-6 schemes that are
probably currently not possible the
class Explorer accounts for example it
is possible to record different mode
async
[Music]
or different tokens spent or different
balances spent basically this is a smart
contract I guess that's the bottom line
of it
so yeah this is the first component
and the second component is
about the signature payloads because
again currently signature pivot system
of preform we have like the SDK
implementation of some structured
payloads but this is just in one SDK
it's not 600 days in any way
so the proposal here is that instead
of
relying on contracts to Define their own
signatures schema
we provide the generic ones that should
hopefully be flexible enough to keep all
the use cases
so
the payload obviously would include some
context information such as network
ID but the main thing and the main
Innovation here is that instead of just
signing a single contract call
it is possible to sign a whole tree of
course or even like Forest of trees
nature okay
basically
from the contract standpoint when the
contract requires an account to
authorize  family vacation
authorize family vacation
the Urban cost like the power wheel
add this into a post deck of all Trace
calls and build a context Tower so
basically when authorized this code from
some contract the
payload for this call should contain
obviously the currently executed
Contracting function but also the call
stack of the authorized invocations
leading to it and the contract provided
arguments so basically it's only since a
contract needs to provide these
arguments  for the authorization and
arguments for the authorization and
everything else is inferred
automatically based on the current
Coast Tech and stuff like that
The Proposal also
includes
[Music]
that generalized Finance Management okay
I think we wanted today different this
but for the sake of overview ready is
that
cost will contain  we will manage
cost will contain we will manage
nonsense per contract and per account
address so that  basically neither
address so that basically neither
regular contracts nor account contracts
need to worry about that and this comes
with some benefits like  nouns can be
with some benefits like nouns can be
consumed only for the top level
invocation and not any subsequence of
contract calls
plus Ledger access and more
flexibility for the users
that's rather benefits
uploaded so now
so these are two key Concepts and
I think another interesting high level
point is that
things  housing is Paradise
things housing is Paradise
for the cases of complex contracts
PreFlight can be utilized
to build this the signature payloads
this is like like when we are talking
about the contracts that have more than
a single signature like it's a current
world or modern single authorized and
location it's a house next World
it may be tricky to figure out like
what exactly needs to be signed like
the contract may be delegated to some
contracts that dynamically depends on
their input and things like that so
in order to figure out
what exactly needs to be signed in
order to be able to execute a certain
contract call
we introduce a mechanism in
pre-flight that  we'll basically Trace
pre-flight that we'll basically Trace
those authorization calls and build the
proper payload
and the cool thing here is that this
stage like there is no signatures
participating and basically no no
commitment to any security reasons from
the user so the only thing that the
private needs is the other addresses of
the account that participate in the
invocation
what else
yeah I think that's pretty much it on
the high level
[Music]
I just think quite like so there's a
bunch of other things but I think we
would want to look
yeah I think that's a great starting
point and we can open it up for
questions I'm especially interested in
the perspective of the DAP developer so
Paul if you have any comments there I
think that the original auth that we
built or what we now call Advanced off
the the point in which we realized it
was a bit problematic is when we had you
know daps and walls try to implement it
and it became clear that it's you know
it's a lot to handle so I'm really
interested to hear  about this one in
interested to hear about this one in
that perspective foreign
talk a little bit more about what
actually goes into the signature payload
specifically like do wallets have to
sign
only the sub tree sections were like
account the authorized is called or they
have to sign every like cross-contract
call or
yeah yeah as I've mentioned basically
their  trees over the coast  not to
their trees over the coast not to
exit full trees or whatever as a
contract calls
basically this is a
subset of the whole country of the
contract were the
current account oh not currently there
can't be interested in all Traders
something so let's say we have an
account a that once  so sorry we have
account a that once so sorry we have
a contract is that once the user to
authorize it then it delegates to
contract BS that doesn't touch right
they return Then B code CZ that's
authorize the users and that cost tags
are user Sciences a and then C B will be
omitted so you know there is no yes
there is no time in a sense for all well
it seems much more flexible right yeah
that's okay so I feel like a exchange
swap for example you would really only
have to sign like the token withdrawal
from your wallet
yes sir like basically yeah you need to
still approve your token to some router
contract and then router contract can
route your token in any direction or
vice versa like you may sign like some
low levels of operation that just swaps
you with someone and you don't really
care how exactly this is being routed
again your signature is required under
this bottom level operation so both ways
work and also an important note on
signatures
that I haven't mentioned is that
wallets would sign the hash of the whole
payload and this is mostly for the sake
of compatibility it's whatever hard of
our wallets and possible features
basically we want to bound their
signature pivot size
like the actual signature  go outside
like the actual signature go outside
it's not  premature yeah so the
it's not premature yeah so the
wallets take the entire subtree hash
that then sign that so there's only one
second sure okay cool thank you yes
Dima yeah yeah I have a question about
and I'm going to steal a list questions
What What In the case that you want to
pass an invalid signature one of the
subcontact with the purpose of taking a
different path in the in the contact
execution
right and explicitly you want to fail
one of them
yeah this is  here okay so like I mean
yeah this is here okay so like I mean
I'm interested to see like an actual
use case for that because
from there like this only influences
pre-flight right from the preference
standpoint like I describe this feature
where we can record the authorizations
but the side effect of recording them is
that we treat them all as successful
it is not impossible to mock failures
in the preferred API it's like basically
not a protocol change I'm not convinced
this is something we actually should do
and it's really unclear to me
why would you ever want this to be the
game basically  in my mind  like if
game basically in my mind like if
it's fine for the authorization failures
to be recoverable
for example you know you want to
clear like multiple trades and at once
and  in a general case trades may not
and in a general case trades may not
clear for multitude of reasons one of
them being that signatures for the
trades  for this trade are incorrect
trades for this trade are incorrect
and you don't want for example to fail
other trades if you're just patching
things together right  this is a fair
things together right this is a fair
case but I think  this case is only
case but I think this case is only
meaningful during the on-chain execution
I think it is fine for the pre-flight
for example to execute the hate this
scenario because it will be  probably
scenario because it will be probably
it will consume more gas and build
access knowledge your entries than  do
access knowledge your entries than do
it in case of failure so it will make it
superset of what is executed in chain
of course it is possible to write
some really weird  contract Logics
some really weird contract Logics
that would try to reorder trace the
account but again I'm not quite
convinced that ever a good idea and
there won't be a good support for that
from the pre-flight standpoint for
example
and  but but I think there is a pretty
and but but I think there is a pretty
good reason to not support it because
you kind of have this recursive
dependency where like you want your
signatures to depend on the function
input but then  if your signature
input but then if your signature
defines like what the signature should
be you get this basically cyclic
dependency rate
so I I'm not convinced this is a good
idea basically like
what I would want contracts to do
normally is that
if you call contracts function with
certain arguments it comes with a
certain signature preload and this
relationship should be deterministic
right and it should not involve
signatures in the input
which is actually one of the problems
with the current Advanced awesome
because we are like
are we used to like include some
information from the signatures  while
information from the signatures while
building pillows for another signatures
and it's pretty messy and  how to
and it's pretty messy and how to
painting and power so yeah
yeah and another question this change
implies that you need to do the
cryptographic verification
posts
transaction execution right are they
very end right because you need to build
the pre-image and in order to build a
pre-image you need to run
the contact right so not on the simulate
side but when you actually go and
execute it
you need to run the entire smart contact
three right and only at the end you have
the pre-image that you can verify with
signature that's actually not true right
like it's a bit of an implementation
detail and I think it may change but in
the current prototype
what happens is that since we kind of
decouple authentication and
naturalization
well at first the whole tree has to
be passed
in some way along the transaction right
so the transaction should know in the
first place whatever if you are claiming
you have time
so from the smartphone perspective for
example it's possible to examine the
whole tree that's trying to or trades
from the authentication perspectives
there is just this curved payload which
is the hash of something and from the
authentication standpoints the only
thing we need to do to it is to
basically verify the signature of this
payload is correct and  in case of
payload is correct and in case of
mounted sync accounts find all the
signers right
so basically the current
implementation the authentication
happens so easily the first time the
account writes to trade something
and actually the same goes to
evaluating the whole tree over the
course in the vote like the latter part
may I may not change but I think yeah
there is really no need to do anything
until the end of the contract execution
we just
do verification as soon as possible
so basically
you've like
if Thompson is not like if some were
deep in the subject there is a cause
that hasn't been authorized will find
out about it as soon as we reach this
point but not
I see so the entire tree is effectively
submitted as part of the transaction
right yeah it is and  yeah I have seen
right yeah it is and yeah I have seen
your suggestion on the dog that  maybe
your suggestion on the dog that maybe
instead of passing like the whole show
explicitly we made Parts ashes of its
nodes which  probably may be fine in
nodes which probably may be fine in
terms of the transaction sites but yeah
it really only matters for the
transaction part of the things
not for the actual execution yeah so
my concern here is that people are going
to use
the existing contact a
infrastructure to develop like deep
executed contact tree right and when
that happened we can have several
hundreds of contracts executed right per
transaction
and I just kind of like a horrified of
the idea that as a result of that we're
going to have hundreds of signature in
each transaction
account
so again there is only a single
signature per account right and said
like
the signature flow is you take the
payload which is basically a network
plus a vector of the invocations you
want to or trade you hash it you sign
the hash that's it ah so there is only a
single signature then the first time
execution time is the first time the
account tries to try something we verify
the signature
and then we will just do basically
matching like weather resist
invocation is present in the tree or not
now
to the Deep tree topic I don't think
it's
it's the new route it has any relevance
to this because it's not like it's
impossible to close up to contract now
and the bank accounts versus these right
like you cannot probably execute a
hundreds of contract calls even if they
don't do any actualization shift because
it will run out of gas before that like
we are going to have gasoline it on the
transaction so
and I think it's completely
it will always be a better idea to have
a single contract than a multiple
contracts than multiple contracts into
these things and  because cow in a
these things and because cow in a
contract comes at the cost so
yeah next week very differentiation
yeah right thank you
can I give us a question about the to
do with this you know what gets signed
in the subtrees and going back to deem
of a example you provided when you
when you're answering one of polls
questions
you describe a situation where an
account
is signing
like that you're calling a contract
and that contract is calling three other
contracts a b and c and this account
just wants to sign  the call to
just wants to sign the call to
contract a and the call to contract B
in that situation is that does that
mean that count a science two sub trees
like separately so they provide two
signatures Play sign a and they sign b
or are they because a few times it's
been mentioned that an account only ever
provides one signature is there some way
that somehow they sign those two sub
trees but it's only one signature or how
does how does that work yeah so
basically  as I said like technically
basically as I said like technically
you're not signing the tree you're a
sign in a forest of treats
so for example if you have a top
level router contract that doesn't
require any authorization but then you
make two subcontract calls that are
authorized that would spawn to all trees
right because they will have different
top level or trades nodes
which I think is fine like you still
need just one signature over that  as
need just one signature over that as
I said I'm always saying like one
signature per account  account here is
signature per account account here is
an account object  it doesn't mean
an account object it doesn't mean
like that it's Unique so if your
transaction accepts two accounts and
they happen to be
to have the same address very long
try to duplicate them and then there are
a little bit of signatures so you know
when I'm talking about like single
single short per account that's only in
the context of that account like in the
context of the whole transaction there
may be a return number of accounts and
some of them maybe duplicates and they
will have their own signatures too so if
you don't try to be any more collaborate
here so it's yeah one per account not
more
okay so in that in that situation where
account one wants to sign contract a
and the contract tree a c but they don't
want to sign the top level
like the very very top level  contract
like the very very top level contract
call they they would provide two
signatures they would sign like the sub
tree for contract a the subtree for
contract C and then they would include
those two signatures
is that is that right
okay so at first I want to make points
that I think it's more like it's
important to practice say that it's not
that account wants to do something it's
what the contract wants to do  because
what the contract wants to do because
the source of the signature pullouts in
the first place is the contract it's
not the account the count row is to
verify the signature like an account
contract account in a more broad context
or always to sign stuff eight and seven
so
basically depending on the call tree you
will get different results for example
if you have a contract
as I said that calls independently into
say contract B and contract c
but you provide it once at the top level
you'll get a single payload
so let's say you have a contract a that
doesn't require authorization itself
but it does go into contracts bncs and
direct prioritization
if you provide contract a then you
will get a single payload with both
invocations but  on the other hand you
invocations but on the other hand you
could
just pre-sign contract B and contract
C and then write  like you don't want
C and then write like you don't want
to know the user to know about your top
level contract then your top level
contractual when you take care about
having two different accounts right but
it will be still possible to forward the
signature so basically it's  whatever
signature so basically it's whatever
the contracts Define and whatever you
try to prep white or build signatures
for it's  driven by the contract
for it's driven by the contract
interfaces so I mean
it's probably a good idea to try to
implement things in a way that
only a single signature is needed so
that you know we have some Atomic
operation per account that may involve
arbitrary number of subcontractables but
nothing limits you from you know using
small result present calls but you will
need to this needs to be reflected in
the contract interface and
implementation that's right so what
you're saying is that
contract a could just sign the entire
tree if they wanted to
yeah like you you would need some
criticize
instead of  so if you just so just
instead of so if you just so just
ignoring PreFlight for a second just
assuming that the  developers here
assuming that the developers here
know how to build these trees themselves
they know how to do all the signage
themselves I'm not really too interested
in the automation just yet but
a developer could choose to sign the
entire tree and they would be signing a
b and c
or they can choose to sign just the
subtree A and Justice subtree C and
include those two signatures
basically yeah like as one is your
Forest of trees corresponds to what what
has been authorized you should be fine
so you know if but basically what you
can do like if you're in full control of
all the execution paths you will just
look at where your authorization secure
and  you would include all this into
and you would include all this into
the signature pivot where signing it and
then you basically can embed this sub
trees in arbitrary  called trees
trees in arbitrary called trees
you care about as well for example the
same topology
and a signature Bionic
a signature on a tree  will just mean
a signature on a tree will just mean
that whatever the address is for that
signature is authorized anywhere in that
tree where that address shows up is that
correct
authorized anywhere the contract
calls all tries on it right so there is
anywhere contract requested
authorization
I have a question related to this about
authorization context and the call stack
so if you if you invoke a contract a
that calls B and you know B is the only
one that calls authorized then a is not
part of the context how long someone to
front run a by submitting B
I'm wondering if there are any security
issues or weird use cases here and if we
should consider requiring the full call
stack by default with the option to
authorize the subset the cost stack and
then the concern here is a high level if
it's possible for the front run to
prevent I expected logic from running
well it sounds right like at first
that was a consideration to include like
the full cost tax but the scenarios like
we have just discussed such scenarios
like it's rather limited and makes use
cases like exchanges much trigger to
implement properly because you know you
may care only about like swapping the
token and you don't want to care about
like how exactly it has been solved
and  and so from training  some
and and so from training some
contracts would indeed need some
front-end prevention in place so for
example you know coming back to the
batching the operations example right so
let's say your contract clears multiple
swaps and  swap May Fail for multiple
swaps and swap May Fail for multiple
reasons one of them is run signatures
another one is front run right someone
front Trends is Swap and it's no longer
valid right
this case is really not different
from any other failure like just write
contract in a way that it gracefully
handles the failures and you should be
good
as for security issues I mean
it is possible to write a contract in
such a way that you can transfer into
signature for it and it's one to the
right thing but it's probably on the
contract and so I can implementation
issue right
normally what you should require is
easier to sign should be it should be a
some sort of atomic operation that the
user should intend to perform it
shouldn't be some middle step so for
example
if I want to create a clinical balance
for example a simple thing right  I
for example a simple thing right I
want to transfer the token to the
contract and I want to create an entry
on behalf of this user
I could drive this incorrectly and
take just the signature for a transfer
and you can
from transit signature quarter transfer
but that's obviously about what I should
do is I should reverse the authorization
the whole thing I'll use the pro or
whatever so I mean
bugs would exist for any sort of
authorizations but
I don't really see an inherent security
risk here and so on as you don't require
the user to sign some  non-atomic
the user to sign some non-atomic
things that you will build storage
account
so let's say coming back to the swap
example let's say you did something
based on the swap outcome then probably
you would want to or trades your top
level contract that does the swaps
because it does something else will
probably need to be or trade right and
you don't want it to be functional
right so and also there's a front
training prevention topic
never mind okay go ahead yeah so like
the you said it makes sense like the the
one thing I'm concerned about is you
know the the authorization authorization
context is determined by the contracts
right as you mentioned  and the user
right as you mentioned and the user
is just going to sign whatever
pre-flight returns so and these bugs are
not that like you know if you don't have
a great understanding of how
this authorization that these
authorization Mechanics Work you may not
see it when you look at the contract and
the user is just going to sign whatever
pre-file returns so it may not be you
know at any point easy to see what the
issue is until until it's too late
so that's just my concern I don't
know if  no I'm still not sure if this
know if no I'm still not sure if this
is so go ahead yeah yeah I know my
intuition is that again this is probably
the case for any sort of traditions like
let's say you understand the whole tree
like do you really think that add in
like a bunch of stuff does a tree would
like prevent some weird  cases when
like prevent some weird cases when
you sign something that you didn't think
yeah I'm not sure
but I think a great thing that
structural payloads are always it's
it should be easy to implement a generic
forward support for  just parsing this
forward support for just parsing this
tree and finding the relevant code you
know like if you send something to The
Exchange that it's supposed to sell
token a for you and you get your payload
and your vote says hey this is going to
withdraw like 10x of the token a that
you actually wanted to trade then you
know you probably won't find this and
wait you wouldn't worry about this too
much
so yeah there is definitely like more
control from the interesting point
in a generic scenario I agree that
some things might be vulnerable and
these are wouldn't know about that but
I'm yeah I I don't have a good
understanding of how prevalent would
this be or how dangerous would this be
because well
and so it could be
contracted a flowed in multiple wage
rate and you wouldn't know so it's I
guess the question of trust and  you
guess the question of trust and you
know only using the things that matter
and the fact that we at least can easily
know what the contract trying to go to
your tokens or whatever other
Commodities you have
it's already a big wins here
because like kind of limits the
impact simulator
yeah yeah thanks Dina
any further questions
Lee yeah I have a question but it's it's
a little bit derailing so
I feel like I want to if anyone else has
questions that are moral on the line of
what we're already talking about that
might be best to do first
the URL awaitly
so I'm interested in Anna have a
proposal interacts with  the simple
proposal interacts with the simple
invoker auth case that we we currently
support today so
I think when timer was describing
before you know we developed the current
version of sorbenorth we realized that
it's actually relatively
complicated to use and so then we
went and had added invoker auth which is
basically the same as message.sender in
the ethereum world
and the way that it's implemented is the
source account on the operation is the
invoker and so a contract can just say
who's the invoker and they'll either get
back and address they'll get back an
address which is either the source
account on the operation or the contract
that's calling them
yeah I saw I I understand that the
proposal basically says okay there's the
proposal replaces the complicated and
the simple auth we have today and
creates a single unified interface that
contracts use to
verify that the address is authorized
I'm just wondering like if there's a
way that we can retain the simplicity so
that for the vast majority of contracts
enter the wallets and contract
interactions  they still have the
interactions they still have the
simplest form of in terms of like what
they need to sign it's like the simplest
without needing to go and sign these
call statues
well
I mean the host Tech tree for the case
that is currently an invoker case it's
pretty much equivalent to just the
conflicting location right because it
consists only of a single invocation and
you know you just add a vector around
the things that already exists
so even if that call has like  so
so even if that call has like so
I'm calling just one contract but that
contract may be calling five other
contracts as a part of its
what it's going to go do
those calls may be unimportant to me
so maybe they're just calling out to an
oracle again some information
again Nano Trace calls are not
included in the payload wait this is an
important point I want to reiterate
again
that what what these are Sciences only
the authorized upset of the whole
country
so it doesn't include any in between or
side calls
even if the authorized call is the top
layer so even if I'm
like the top call is going to be
authorized
Ultra is doesn't propagate anywhere
authorize means that I'll try this and
only this added in the current context
that's it it doesn't say anything about
inside invocation so that curse would
not contain things that are not done on
your behalf
so whatever the contract calls into
doesn't matter for the secret signature
so for the case where invoker is used
currently I mean invoker cannot be
propagated currently right you cannot
forward the invoker to the other
contract which actually they have seen
from discussion it's  kind of a bit
from discussion it's kind of a bit
annoying and confusing right because you
may sometimes want to propagate it
but yeah this is a side like in this
exact use case when you don't propagate
the top level account anywhere the
signature pillow it will be almost
exactly the same module of the different
structure rate instead of like having a
single contract and invocation you will
handle it support into a vector and
that's pretty much it and you will have
a signature a few different plates so
you know from adapt perspective  it
you know from adapt perspective it
will be marginally harder to build this
payload but you know doesn't need to
account for anything new so just need to
use a bit different structures and
from the transaction State Savings
endpoint like we are keeping the
invoker making sure to like save on
signatures and you know if the source
account thanks a whole transaction and
the contract call  it is possible to
the contract call it is possible to
mark that it is an invoker and do not
require like a second signature
so
the optimization part is there two and
yeah the only thing that kind of changes
from the contract interface 10 point is
that yeah you need to pass the account
explicitly and intercourageon account we
may or may not introduce some sugar in
SDK to simplify that and make it so you
don't really need to type what you want
to authorize but you know it's like one
line of code
we also want to do this for the sake
of Click so if you can but
I don't think it's too big of a
an issue to basically do this but on the
other hand like it is now possible to
for the constant to do things on behalf
of accounts in the sub course which is
not possible within local current which
I think is yeah yeah of course
yeah I think I think an optimization
like if if there is some way for us to
retain an optimization where The Source
The Source account could still be used
to authorize
I I guess the because I'm not really
too concerned about that one line of
code that a contract has to add
I'm more concerned about what that
the story is for a Dap or a wallet
developer
yeah but the transaction you know a
number of things I need to sign like
like a you know like a hardware wallet
needing to sign the Stellar transaction
as well as this blob which is like two
signatures
so two rounds of signing they need to
go through versus if the if 99 of
contract calls really only just need
that Source account you know they really
only then have to sign just the
transaction once which is
yeah yeah I think you definitely want to
preserve that it's  increase that for
preserve that it's increase that for
the signature key test when you know
you'll pay for the transaction that your
qualities or one contract it's
definitely easier to
just passing a signal curvy so
basically yeah it doesn't go anywhere
but it will be possible to do
everything in this single signature
how frequently this will be used
compared to something else we don't know
yet because we have discussed a lot of
the cases and you know some third-party
page for the fees but you know that's
something you've got a secret you know
it's a case for the user to just send a
transaction to Samsung do to your
business and this multi-help
transactions hopefully possible to sign
other corporations at once while still
being compatible with something
are there any other questions either
from anyone on the stage or the audience
I have a minor question that maybe like
you can you can explain like in the
Prototype why is authorize called
authorized instead of something like
verify authorization
I think that was done intentionally but
I don't recall the reason
I no I I don't think there is reasons
okay
yeah I mean
odd trays it's like
I don't know
I'll try this current invocation but if
it's confusing you can use whatever name
defines you to go
to college verify that's radiation as
well check I don't know
foreign
okay so I think there's
yeah I think the the last one we touched
on which is having to sign multiple
payloads  for the even for a simple
payloads for the even for a simple
case
I think that's a no-go I think we
need to either optimize for that
or or scrap this  at the end of the
or or scrap this at the end of the
day people are using external signing
applications people are using Hardware
wallets
and we need to figure out for the
simple use case  how to sign a single
simple use case how to sign a single
payload
yeah okay so let's stay so I'm yeah I'm
not saying this is going to go anywhere
so
as simple use cases will be possible but
you know for the complex use cases you
may end up needing to send two things
but yeah
do you mean the simple use case would be
satisfied by just keeping the existing
invokerol with capability or are you
meaning that we would introduce an
optimization into this proposal so that
the contract still uses the same method
they still call Dot authorize or dot
verify authorization yeah nothing
changes somehow comes from the The
Source account Yeah so basically we
don't truly awake
the whole  driver for this proposal
the whole driver for this proposal
was to kind of have unified account
oh sorry unified Contracting rupees and
you know I find it kind of
problematic that
you kind of hard code your contract to
use invoker right if you don't use
Advanced host on the current approach
and that's kind of bad right because if
you want to use this in a different
context you cannot it's hard cut a teas
and Walker
so the contract interface itself uses
what's next it uses accounts and
addresses and the abstraction and you
know one of the implementations of that
abstract account even though it's kind
of built into host but it's just
invokers rate it's just one of
implementation of the abstract account
contracts shouldn't worry about that
it's all implemented in the host and
it's in the current prototype as well
so yeah
let's Chooser and by simple use case I
mean the cases when there is only single
accounts it needs to trace operations
you know throughout multiple accounts
and one of them can actually can be
invoker but that's reason to pre-size
something but they want me to sign the
storage induction so hopefully you know
a majority of the case is only single
signatures needed
so just to be on the same this is
implemented in your host prototype for
off next right now yeah it's in the Pro
Tab right now
so this is an important thing and it's
important
and is the way that that works that
you it's only the top level contracts
but if they call Dot authorize they
would see the source account as being
authorized
yeah they actually will see wait
basically the trees teeth sharing the
transaction payload but instead of
cutting the signature you pass nothing
and instead of passing the account ID
you pass the flag because it's an
invoker it's similar to how we handle
invoker currently in advanced cars it's
just move to the transaction structure
itself
right I'm just wondering because in
Vegas today  is only it has no depth
Vegas today is only it has no depth
like yeah now it has depth yeah now it
will have depth because the transaction
has the whole  tree of the coast so
has the whole tree of the coast so
basically you are signing the tree
itself which is why it is safe okay so
so this the way the way it's currently
implemented it's not really messaged us
and  it's  like the
and it's like the
transaction.origin from ethereum it
sounds like is the way that it's working
I I'm not sure but I think the key
factor here is that you explicitly you
still explicitly out price calls right
it's not like you just gave  for a
it's not like you just gave for a
contract blanket permissions to call
things on your behalf  it is really
things on your behalf it is really
just it's keeping the signature
verification part because you when
you're assigning the transaction or
operation you are also assigning the
whole  authorized call stack payload
whole authorized call stack payload
that you've been talking about before
so yeah so basically yes the world would
need to show you that hey as a part of
this operation you
maybe a sign in multiple  token
maybe a sign in multiple token
operations for example right but  you
operations for example right but you
know from the signature standpoint it
needs to still be sanctioned once
so it's basically like msg.center but
better because like energy the center is
like contingent on the fact that you
have signed the top level and location
here you sign  all the invocations
here you sign all the invocations
that you need to try
yep okay yeah I'm the reason I just
mentioned that the transaction of origin
is because I'm just trying to think of
if there's
anything that we really need to worry
because it feels a little bit more like
transaction.origin in the you know you
could you're the source account you call
this contract either calls another
contract you tell that other contract
that you're authorizing as the invoker
so that other contract is authorized
with the top level Source account
yeah I think I think yeah I think I
think it's probably fine because you're
right it's reflected in you still have
to specify yeah yeah
right there is really no way no matter
what kind of authorization you use and
so it's no way to somehow hide the
subcontract call that prefers
authorization so there is really no way
to hide some token withdrawals number
deep in the trade those still circuits
no matter what or it will just fail
because you haven't seen it
yeah
any other questions from the stage of
the audience
okay so I think  you know dima's done
okay so I think you know dima's done
a great job at answering all these
questions I think there's a still
most of the concerns are around the
you know what is the contract for the
Gap developer and to get insights into
that I think we need to regroup and
probably come up with some  you know
probably come up with some you know
minimal prototypes that help us
understand that  so hopefully that's
understand that so hopefully that's
something that we can put together
soon enough and
discuss again
and if
no one has anything else they want to
ask or to add then I think we can call
it a day
yes maybe if you have a few more minutes
I have one question it's yeah
about the non replay protection
if a transaction fails because the
call stack change will the nodes be
consumed or not
yeah the non-consumption is actually
trick using
May
need to think more about that  in the
need to think more about that in the
current implementation
nonce is basically tied to the top level
or try it's called
which may or may not be the right
thing to do which means that
it's something fails
basically okay if the whole transaction
fails  The Ledger state is completely
fails The Ledger state is completely
rolled back those announced won't
won't be consumed
if a top level contractor tries succeeds
but
some subcontract call fails  and
some subcontract call fails and
the top level contract handles is Grace
collisions and not smart Bureau project
thank you
okay we we may need to discuss this
further because this can be an issue
with like at some point
the transaction fail
and then becomes available again because
the code stack is available again
someone can just run through you
and replace the transaction
doesn't make sense
yeah I I mean the transaction replay
but basically again frontrun is kind of
weird because it's it shouldn't be an
issue most of the time because someone
would do what you wanted to do anyway
yeah yeah but what you wanted to do
at one point may not be what you wanted
to do in the future so let's say I want
to transact with one with one inch to
spend my
money then these fails so I spend my
money with another Exchange
and then someone replay the previous
transaction and spend my money again
like we can discuss this more but
basically
yeah I think like I think this kind of
brings another topic which is
exploration which I don't think we have
discussed and they didn't do anything in
the proposal
it may be a generally useful feature to
have you know for your
signature to have expiration and that
even could be a part of the standard
payload so that we could  distribute
payload so that we could distribute
expired payloads
but yeah I think it's kind of
complementary to our question okay yeah
yeah the Norms could be Ledger bonded or
time bonded
that may be a good idea okay yeah yeah
we can discuss this and yeah it would be
nice to try to come up with  basically
nice to try to come up with basically
some Sooners and the sink they can get
abused somehow because
thank you thank you
thanks Tebow so we are approaching
time thank you so much for everyone and
Dima especially for you for  prepping
Dima especially for you for prepping
this and for answering the questions we
will regroup and update on Discord
thank you all